Discord- Start Here
Thanks for your interest in the Option Omega Discord!
Here’s a quick video on how to get onto the Discord. (All the action is in the verified channels– so make sure you get verified!) As an OO subscriber, you will have access to the verified channels. These channels include trade support, technical questions and community ideas and discussion.

Here are a few simple ground rules:

Be kind— this is a casual place to hangout, talk about backtests, post trades (if desired), etc. It’s not supposed to be stressful. People who are overly aggressive, antagonistic, or just unpleasant will be warned and or banned.
This is a discord hangout— it is not financial advice! People may or not comment on real or imagined trades— but please remember options involve risks and are not suitable for all investors— speak to a qualified financial adviser if you have questions.
Some folks here use their names, some do not. Please respect the anonymous and named alike.
This Discord is privilege, not a right. Refer to rule #1!

Verified Channel Guide
Help-questions: Need help or info about the app? If you’re asking a test-related question– PLEASE post a FULL screenshot of the setup with your question. Also, post a saved link to you’re getting specific (https://youtu.be/8_S7hc5oET8 this will show you how to save & share).

Feedback-suggestions: Discussion for improvements and tweaks you’d like to see

Bugs-errors: Issues and errors! Please include screenshot with all three rows. Please reserve this for BUGS only. “Why did my test do ‘X’ questions should go in the help-questions channel”

Tests-strats: Discuss strategies and backtests here

Actual-trades: If you WANT to discuss actual trades and/or post screenshots, this is the place! As always, no pressure, do your own work– this is for discussion and education only.

Stock-talk: Not Index related stock chatting

SPX-talk: SPX related (SPY and XSP ok too) related stock chatting

Trading-mindset: Discussion of the mental side

Other-tools: Broker discussion, etc.

Resources: Helpful news, etc.

Lounge: Casual hangout


Discord Tips
Tips & Tricks
If you are new— please refer to the following:

Please, take some time to familiarize yourself with the culture of the Discord. If you are brand new, it is often beneficial to listen and observe first!

If you have a question at all related to “why does x happen in my test” or “why does my test do ____”, the channel for this is the “help-questions”. The bugs channel should be reserved for actual bugs that are you certain about. If you’re not certain, please post in “help-questions” FIRST.

The search bar is your friend. Some days have 100’s of messages, and many topics have been discussed before. You can often find an answer quickly with minimal search effort.