Is there a way to backtest trades on a specific Day? For example trade 0DTE only on Mondays?

Matt (Option Omega) — 03/17/2022 6:04 PM
Yes there sure is!
[6:04 PM]
You can select daily/weekly/monthly
[6:05 PM]
One second let me post a screenshot

Rodrigo C — 03/17/2022 6:05 PM
ohh i see. So i should put it in weekly and starting on a Monday /Wed or Friday
[6:05 PM]
oh, there's an option to choose the day
[6:05 PM]
great!
[6:05 PM]


Matt (Option Omega) — 03/17/2022 6:06 PM
Yes
[6:06 PM]

[6:06 PM]
You got it

Rodrigo C — 03/17/2022 6:06 PM
amazing
[6:06 PM]
Thanks!

3

Matt (Option Omega) — 03/17/2022 6:07 PM
Thank you @Rodrigo C for using the help channel for a help request!!! We're trying to organize the Discord a little clearer

3
March 18, 2022

Emet — 03/18/2022 10:31 AM
Hi - I'm probably just going blind, but where is the 'Misc' section to specify Open/Close fees?

Rusty (Option Omega) — 03/18/2022 10:49 AM
At the bottom of the "New Backtest" slider, beneath both entry and exit conditions

Emet — 03/18/2022 10:52 AM
Ah got it - caching issue
[10:52 AM]
You are doing super rapid releases... maybe slap a release date somewhere on the page?

Rusty (Option Omega) — 03/18/2022 11:02 AM
good call
[11:02 AM]
too many releases?  (edited)

Emet — 03/18/2022 11:19 AM
No, being this responsive to feedback is extremely impressive

2

DavLd — 03/18/2022 11:53 AM
so maybe I'm missing something
[11:53 AM]
this is a web based app
[11:53 AM]
so wont we just see the latest version each time you update?

Rusty (Option Omega) — 03/18/2022 11:56 AM
Unless your browser caches excessively
[11:56 AM]
Or you never close your tabs

Emet — 03/18/2022 11:58 AM
Yea, I just had the same tabs sitting there from yesterday

2
March 24, 2022

mar7fan — 03/24/2022 11:39 PM
Regarding Profit Target and Stop Loss%

It's % of premium/debit received/paid, correct?

Stop loss % is net loss.  Say a credit trade receives $10 premium, stop loss set to 30%, when stop loss hit, the net loss will be $3.  Right?

For credit trade, Max. profit is 100%, Max. stop loss can be a large number, correct?

For debit trade, Max. profit can be a large number, Max. stop loss is 100%, correct?

On credit trade test results, there are some very big profit or loss, much bigger than the profit target and stop loss %.  What's the reason for that?

Thx.
March 25, 2022

DavLd — 03/25/2022 2:32 AM
Yes to all of your questions. For the last question on large profit/loss it can be due to gaps due to the data being 5 minutes or more likely from trading day gaps at open

1
[2:33 AM]
If you want simulate limit or stop orders that would catch these , toggle these on:

March 28, 2022

@DavLd
Yes to all of your questions. For the last question on large profit/loss it can be due to gaps due to the data being 5 minutes or more likely from trading day gaps at open

mar7fan — 03/28/2022 7:33 AM
Setting the 2 toggles did the trick, thx
April 1, 2022

AndyM — 04/01/2022 7:59 AM
Is there a way to backtest a combo trade?   I want to test a Put Credit Spread and a Butterfly Debit trade simultaneously?

@AndyM
Is there a way to backtest a combo trade? I want to test a Put Credit Spread and a Butterfly Debit trade simultaneously?

Rusty (Option Omega) — 04/01/2022 8:09 AM
Not currently. We are however working on a way to show the results of multiple strategies together

AndyM — 04/01/2022 8:38 AM
ok thx
April 3, 2022

Rodrigo C — 04/03/2022 5:38 PM
Hello everyone. I have a super basic question.

In options Omega market opens at 09.30 and closes at 16:00...but does that time changes due to daylight savings time? (edited)

Rusty (Option Omega) — 04/03/2022 5:39 PM
Yes, it follows eastern US time zone

2
April 5, 2022

Simran — 04/05/2022 9:25 PM
Quick question
[9:27 PM]
the backtest is based on the starting capital & not the available buying power. For example if I fund a margin account with 6K cash, my buying power will be actually be 18K (edited)
[9:28 PM]
so the results I am seeing in option omega is based on the cash and not the max buying power. Correct?

@Simran
the backtest is based on the starting capital & not the available buying power. For example if I fund a margin account with 6K cash, my buying power will be actually be 18K (edited)

DavLd — 04/05/2022 9:50 PM
https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-trade-busters/id1576884492?i=1000531299939
Apple Podcasts
‎The Trade Busters: 18 – Stock Margin vs. Options Margin on Apple P...
‎Show The Trade Busters, Ep 18 – Stock Margin vs. Options Margin - Aug 6, 2021

[9:51 PM]
If you fund 6k your max option margin is 6k
[9:52 PM]
The 18k (or more) would be stock buying power which is something different
